Adding List and Tuple datastructures in Python Basics (#115)
NuevoFoundation/workshops: content/english/python-basics/tuple/_index.md

---

> title: "Tuple"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Tuples"
```

draft: false
weight: 10
---

> Tuple is also a ordered collection of elements just like lists but tuple is immutable. So you can not change the elements of a tuple after it is assigned but for list you are allowed to do so. A tuple can be created by placing all the elements inside parentheses `()`, separated by commas. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A tuple is also an ordered collection of elements just like lists, but tuples are immutable. So you can not change the elements of a tuple after it is assigned (unlike lists where you are allowed to do so). A tuple can be created by placing all the elements inside parentheses `()`, separated by commas. 
```

> Tuple is also a ordered collection of elements just like lists but tuple is immutable. So you can not change the elements of a tuple after it is assigned but for list you are allowed to do so. A tuple can be created by placing all the elements inside parentheses `()`, separated by commas. 

Reviewer: A discussion for when you should use lists vs. tuples would be helpful.

```python

#creating a tuple of two elements of String type 
my_tuple = ('apple', 'orange')

```

{{% notice note %}}

> Tuple can also be created with out parentheses. However, it is a good practice to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tuples can also be created without parentheses. However, it is a good practice to use them.
```

Can you please add an example of what this looks like?

{{% /notice %}}

> Tuple can also have the elements of different types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tuple can also have elements of different types.
```

```python

> #A tuple having elements of different datatypes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#A tuple having elements of different data types
```

my_tuple = ('apple', 1, 4.5)

```

### Accessing the elements of a tuple

> We can access the elements of a tuple by using indexes inside square bracket `[]` just like list and the index starts from 0. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can access the elements of a tuple by using indexes inside square bracket `[]` just like lists. Note the index starts from 0. 
```

```python

#creating a tuple of three elements of String type 
my_tuple = ('apple', 'orange', 'mango')

print(my_tuple[0]) ## prints apple
print(my_tuple[2]) ## prints mango

```

### Combine two tuples

> We can combine two tuple by using `+` operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can combine two tuples by using `+` operator.
```

> We can combine two tuple by using `+` operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can combine two tuples by using `+` operator.
```

```python

fruits = ('apple', 'orange', 'mango')
numbers = (1, 2, 3)

#Combine two tuples fruits and numbers
combined_tuple = fruits + numbers

print(combined_tuple) ## prints ('apple', 'orange', 'mango', 1, 2, 3)

```

### Length of a tuple

`len(tuple)` function gives the number of elements present in the tuple.

```python

fruits = ('apple', 'orange', 'mango')

print(len(fruits))  ## prints 3

```

### Reassign a tuple

> As we know tuple is immutable, we can not change and element of the tuple. So `fruits[0] = 'lemon'` will give error as here we are trying to change the element at index `0` of 'fruits'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since tuples are immutable, we can not change an element of the tuple. So `fruits[0] = 'lemon'` will give an error as we are trying to change the element at index `0` of 'fruits'.
```
